LibSnert Software Library, Version 1

Copyright 2001, 2013 by Anthony Howe.  All rights reserved.


LICENSE AGREEMENT 1.9

SNERTSOFT & CO. ARE WILLING TO LICENSE THE SOFTWARE IDENTIFIED ABOVE TO
YOU ONLY UPON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT ALL OF THE TERMS CONTAINED
IN THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT. PLEASE READ THE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY
DOWNLOADING OR INSTALLING THIS SOFTWARE, YOU ACCEPT THE TERMS OF THE
AGREEMENT.


1. DEFINITIONS

  1. ``Package'' means the identified above in source and/or binary
     form, any other machine readable materials provided (including,
     but not limited to documentation, sample files, data files), any
     updates or error corrections, and its derivative works.

  2. ``Organisation'' means a legal entity or an individual.

  3. ``You'' (or ``Your'') means an Organisation exercising rights
     under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a
     future version of this License issued under Section 6.1. For
     legal entities, ``You'' includes any entity which controls, is
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes
     of this definition,``control'' means (a) the power, direct or
     indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity,
     whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than
     fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial
     ownership of such entity.

  4. ``SnertSoft'' means Anthony C. Howe situated in Montreal, Canada.

  5. ``SnertSoft & Co.'' means SnertSoft and all authorised & licensed
     partners, such as value-added resellers or appliance manufacturers.


2. STATEMENT OF ORIGINAL WORK

  1. The Package is an original work written by SnertSoft, with
     exception of following third party code:

     1. MD5 routines written by L. Peter Deutsch, based on RFC 1321;

     2. SQLite3 package is written by D. Richard Hipp of Hwaci and is
	in the public domain.

     3. strnatcmp.c is written by Martin Pool of sourcefrog.net and
     	has a BSD style license.

     4. Original Protothreads headers written by Adam Dunkels and
     	has a BSD style license.

3. LICENSE TO USE

  1. You may install and use this Package, without modifications,
     exclusively on machines for which You have purchased a license,
     provided You retain this notice, SnertSoft's copyright notice,
     any and all license control methods (see below), and any links
     within the Package back to the most current online versions of
     this License and Disclaimer.

  2. You may copy, share, distribute, modify, and create derivative
     works from the user manuals and any related documentation solely
     for Your internal business purposes, such as in-house documentation,
     training manuals, or reference material.


4. RESTRICTIONS

  1. Redistribution, including but not limited to books, CDROMS,
     download mirrors, floppy diskettes, hard disks, hardcopy print
     outs, online archives, solid state disks, streaming tapes, or
     other current or future forms of storage or communication media
     of the Package, with or without modifications, including any and
     all derivative works such as source patches, binaries, binary
     patches, or similar is expressly forbidden without prior written
     permission in hardcopy (ie. letter or fax) signed and dated by
     SnertSoft.

  2. It is expressly forbidden for You to use the Package, in whole or
     in part, in any other software or appliance without prior written
     permission in hardcopy (ie. letter or fax) signed and dated by
     SnertSoft.

  3. It is expressly forbidden for You to use the Package to develop
     any software or other technology having the same primary function
     as the Package, including but not limited to using the Package in
     any development or test procedure that seeks to develop like
     software or other technology, or determine if such software or
     other technology performs in a similar manner as the Package.

  4. You may not sell, rent, lease, or transfer the Package to third
     parties without prior written permission in hardcopy (ie. letter
     or fax) signed and dated by SnertSoft.


5. TERMINATION

  1. This Agreement is effective until terminated. You may terminate
     this Agreement at any time by destroying all copies of the Package.

  2. This Agreement will terminate immediately without notice from
     SnertSoft if You fail to comply with any provision of this Agreement.

  3. Either party may terminate this Agreement immediately should any
     portion of the Package become, or in either party's opinion be
     likely to become, the subject of a claim of infringement of any
     intellectual property right. Upon Termination, You must destroy
     all copies of the Package.


6. VERSIONS OF THE LICENSE

  1. New Versions. SnertSoft may publish revised and/or new versions
     of the License from time to time. Each version will be given a
     distinguishing version number.

  2. Effect of New Versions. Once a version of the Package has been
     published under a particular version of the License, You may
     always continue to use it under the terms of that License
     version. You may also choose to use such Package under the terms
     of the most current version of the License published by
     SnertSoft.

  3. No one other than SnertSoft has the right to modify the terms
     applicable to the Package created under this License.


DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO WAY SHALL SNERTSOFT OR LICENSEE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


LICENSE CONTROL

The Package may use one or more license control methods including, but
not limited to, license key activation, periodic reporting of Package
details and IP address of installation to SnertSoft & Co., or remote
license verification by SnertSoft & Co.. Any information reported to
or gathered by SnertSoft & Co. shall remain strictly confidential and
the private property of SnertSoft & Co.. Under no circumstances will
SnertSoft & Co. resell or release this information to third parties,
unless demanded by court order.


SUPPORT

Support is provided for one year from date of purchase and only for
SnertSoft's original Package that was purchased directly from
SnertSoft. Additional support beyond the first year can be obtained
from SnertSoft on time & materials basis or from one of SnertSoft's
authorised partners.

Support for the Package obtained from authorised partners, such as
value-added resllers or appliance manufacturers, will be supplied by
those partners. SnertSoft will not support the Package without proof
of purchase from SnertSoft, such as an Order No. or Invoice No.

Package enhancements requests and product suggestions are always
welcome. A community mailing list is available; please refer to
SnertSoft web site Support area for details.

-END-
